2. Define the periodogram. Why is it a poor estimator?

The periodogram P(omega) is defined as the normalized squared magnitude of the signal's Discrete-Time Fourier Transform (DTFT).
It is not a consistent estimator since it doesn't approximate the true value as the sample size increases. It also causes spectral leakage.

3. What are the benefits and side effects of slicing the signal when calculating the periodogram?

Benefits: it reduces variance of the periodogram, and it smooths the PSD out.
Side effects: it leads to loss in frequency resolution, and it increases windowing bias because the slices are shorter in time.

4. Explain the bias–variance trade-off in spectral estimation.

Since we can't analyze an infinite signal we have to choose our PSD plot to be either noisy or smooth but blurry.
We solve the noisiness (high variance) by chopping the signal into smaller segments and averaging their PSD together. This
results in a smoother curve.
We solve the spectral leakage (the bias) by taking longer segments of time from the signal. This results in a sharper and more precise PSD.

5. Describe the Welch method.

The Welch's method is for estimating the PSD of a signal.
It takes overlapping slices of the data (for example the first 50% of the data is the same as the last 50% of the data from the previous slice).
After that, each slice is multiplied by a Hann or Hamming window. Then the FFT of each windowed segment is calculated, then the periodogram of the windows is averaged out.

6. Why does Welch assume stationarity?

Because the PSD is defined for stationary signals and because the Welch method is averaging periodograms together. If two slices have different frequencies in them,
then the averaging out doesn't work anymore.

7. Why does Welch reduce variance?

It reduces variance because it is averaging overlapping slices of the data together.

8. What is lost when using Welch instead of a single FFT?

Frequency resolution is lost when using Welch. Since Welch is taking slices of the data, this means it will have less frequency resolution than the FFT.

9. What is the effect of segment length?

The length of the segment is determining the bias-variance trade-off. Meaning longer segments lead to sharper but noisier plots,
but shorter segments lead to smoother plots with less frequency resolution.

10. Why does averaging reduce variance but not bias?

Variance is random error coming from the signal. Averaging smooths the plot out. But bias is error coming from the method itself. It is due to spectral leakage and
loss of resolution since this is coming from the length of the segments in our method.

11. Why is overlap used in Welch?

It is used to solve the bias–variance trade-off. Overlap is used in Welch's method to reduce variance and recover lost data.

12. Why are windows applied before the FFT?

Windows are applied before the FFT to prevent spectral leakage. They reduce sharp jumps at the ends of the slices.

13. What is detrending and why is it used?

Detrending is used to remove the DS offset, to remove the 0 Hz spike. To remove spectral leakage. To remove "trends" of the signal (for example a sensor slowly heating up). It is also needed
for the signal to be stationary.

14. What is zero padding? What does it change?

The FFT works best with a number of samples that is a power of 2. By padding with zeros we can have smoother lines but not better frequency resolution.

15. If segments have 300 samples, what FFT length is typically used and why?

We would use 512 samples for the FFT. The first 300 would be the actual samples and the rest is just 0 padding to achieve a power of 2.

17. Why must sampling frequency appear in PSD scaling?

We scale by Fs because we need to divide the power by the physical width of the frequency bin to get a "density."

18. What is meant by a one-sided spectrum? When is it a valid measure of the energy content of a signal?

A one-sided spectrum means that we discard the negative frequencies of a signal. We double the positve frequencies' power. This is only valid for real signals.

19. Explain the line below when normalizing a one-sided spectrum:
FFTSlices[:, 1:-1] *= np.sqrt(2)

We don't need to double the power of the 0 frequency. We don't need to double the power of the Niquist frequency either. But we double the power of the signal by
multiplying with sqrt(2) because P = A^2

25. Explain the Laplace transform and its kernel. Why is it widely used in mathematics, physics, and engineering?

It is widely used because in the real world the signals must have a starting point they can't be infinite. The Laplace transforms
considers that the signal starts at 0. Using the Laplace transform is way simpler since we have to do algebraic calculations instead of differential equations.
It is also beneficial since we can plot the poles and zeros of the equation to see if the system is stable or not.

The kernel function is: e^(-st) where s = sigma + j * omega
e^(-sigma*t) corresponds to the amplitude whereas e^(-j*omega*t) corresponds to oscillations