1. Give brief answers to the following questions. Provide hand drawn figures where necessary:
(a) Describe various different ways a signal can be classified.

    continuous, discreet time signals, digital signals
    deterministic, non deterministic signals
    even, odd signals
    periodic, aperiodic signals
    energy, power signals
    real, imaginary signals

(b) What is the difference between a mathematical and physical representation of a signal?

    The physical signal is bound by laws of nature and imperfections (ex. noise) while the mathematical signals are
    clean and perfect, not bound by anything (no noise, no limitations)

(c) Explain the differences between continuous-time, discrete-time, and digital signals in terms of mathematical
and physical representations.

    Continuous time signals are defined on R->R. Discreet time signals are defined on a set of values
    D=(...x-1, x0, x1, x2...) where xn - xn-1 = delta for any n. The values of the signal can be from R.
    While the digital signals are defined on D1->D2 where D1, D2 are like D.

(d) Describe the concept of a system and explain how it is represented mathematically.

    It's a process that transforms an input signal into an output signal based on a mathematical expression.

(e) What is a continuous-time system? A discrete-time system? Provide one example of each.

    A continuous time system's domain and codomain are both R, while for the discrete time system's
    domain is a sampled domain (looking like D=(...x-1, x0, x1, x2...) where xn - xn-1 = delta for any n),
    but the codomain is still R. Continuous time system: sound amplifier. Discrete time system: filtering of sensor data.

(f) A continuous-time system is also called an analog system. Do you agree or disagree?

    Analog systems are continuous time systems, but continuous time system aren't always analog systems.

(g) Why do we need interface systems and where do we need them? Provide a block-diagram description of
such systems needed in signal processing.

    Interface systems are needed to convert signals from analog to digital or from digital to analog.
    They're used is ADCs and DACs. We need them to convert real word data into digital data or vice versa.
    image: 1 g).png

(h) Describe an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter.

    ADC takes a real time input, samples it's values and quantizes it resulting in a digital signal.

(i) Describe a digital-to-analog (D/A) converter.

    DAC takes digital values of a signal and reconstructs an approximation of the original analog signal.

(j) What is the difference between a practical and an ideal A/D converter? Between a practical and ideal D/A
converter?

    An ideal ADC would convert a continuous time signal into a discrete time signal, but a practical one
    converts analog signals into digital (quantized) signals. An ideal DAC would reconstruct a continuous time
    signal perfectly, while a practical one can only output an analog signal with rigid steps.

(k) What is signal processing and what are its different forms used in practice? Give one example of each form.

    It is concerned with the acquisition, representation, manipulation and transformation of signals. It's forms
    are analog and digital signal processing. ASP: manipulation of analog signals like electrical signals using
    electric components. DSP: manipulation of discrete, digital signals using software algorithms. Mixed signal processing
    is when we apply both. DSP: communication (Wi-Fi, 5G) is based on DSP. ASP: analog audio equalizer.

(l) Describe analog signal processing (ASP) with the help of its simplified block diagram.

    image: 1 l)m).png

(m) Describe digital signal processing (DSP) with the help of its simplified block diagram.

    image: 1 l)m).png

(n) Why is DSP preferred over ASP? Are there any disadvantages?

    DSP is preferred since it's easier to store bits (digital values) than analog ones.  Digital signals are easier to process,
    since it's software reliant, changing it is a matter of changing code. However, changing how analog signals are
    processed means changing hardware which is way more time-consuming and expensive. The disadvantages are that it has
    limited resolution and can't produce the same level of detail. DSP also adds delay and has limitations with higher
    frequencies that require more power to process.
